# Exercise 4:  Keeping your feature branch up to date with master

As we learned in our previous exercise, merging brings changes from one branch into another branch.  Let's create a new feature branch named `feature-a` from the `master` branch.  We will commit a change to a file within the `feature-a` branch.  We'll switch to the `master` branch, create and commit a new file to the `master` branch.  In this scenario, we would like to bring the changes (the new file) from `master` into our `feature-a` branch.  By merging `master` into your feature branch on a regular basis, you can keep up with the changes that are occurring to master by other members of your team.  By merging `master` into your feature branch, you keep your feature branch compatible with `master`.  This will be a big help when it comes times to merge your feature branch back into `master`.  

## Create 'feature-a' branch and commit a change to the readme markdown file

- Create a branch named `feature-a` from the `master` branch.  Check out the new `feature-a` branch. Use `git branch` to verify where `HEAD` is pointing:

  ```
  $ git checkout master
  $ git branch feature-a
  $ git branch
  $ git checkout feature-a
  $ git branch
  ```

- Adding the following markdown content at the bottom of the **readme.md** file.  Save the file.

  ```
  Here is a change within the `feature-a` branch.
  ```

- Verify the status of the files within the `feature-a` branch.
- Stage the change to the  **readme.md** file.
- Commit the change to the  **readme.md** file.
- Verify the status of the files in the `feature-a` branch.
- View the hash of the new commit within the `feature-a` branch using `git log`:

  ```
  $ git log --pretty=format:'%h %ad | %s%d [%an]' --graph --date=short --all
  ```

## Switch to the 'master' branch, create and commit a new markdown file in the master branch

- Use the correct command to switch from the `feature-a` branch to the `master` branch.
- Use the correct command to verify you are currently on the the `master` branch.
- Create a markdown file named **created-in-master-branch.md**.  Add some markdown to the file such as:

    ```
    # This is a Heading 1 (H1) html tag

    This is a paragraph.  

    ## Heading 2 (H2) html tag

    - first item in an html unordered list
    - second item
    - third item

    ### H3 header tag

    This is another paragraph.  Notice the link to the [Atom Flight Manual](http://flight-manual.atom.io/).
    ```

- Save the changes to the  **created-in-master-branch.md** file.
- Verify the status of the files within the `master` branch.
- Stage the change.
- Verify the status of the files within the `master` branch.
- Commit the change
- Verify the status of the files within the `master` branch.
- Run the log to see the commit history. Notice how the `master` is diverging from `feature-a`. (Your hash values will vary):

  ```
  * 5f43fbe 2016-10-13 | adding created-in-master-branch markdown file in master branch (HEAD -> master) [tripott]
  | * dfac710 2016-10-13 | adding markdown within feature-a branch (feature-a) [tripott]
  |/
  * 15d5705 2016-10-12 | adding my favorite album [tripott]
  * fe3450b 2016-10-12 | initial commit [tripott]
  ```

## Merge the master branch into feature-a.

In this scenario, we would like to bring the new **created-in-master-branch.md** file that we created in our  `master` branch into our `feature-a` branch.  By merging `master` into your feature branch on a regular basis, you can keep up with the changes that are occurring to `master` by other members of your team.  By merging changes from `master` into your feature branch, you keep your feature branch compatible with `master`.  This will be a big help when it comes times to merge your feature branch back into `master` later down the road.  

- Checkout the `feature-a` branch and merge the changes from `master` into the `feature-a` branch:

  ```
  $ git checkout feature-a
  $ git merge master
  ```

- Run the log to see the commit history. Notice how the `master` has merged into `feature-a`. (Your hash values will vary):

  ```
  *   ca282c2 2016-10-13 | Merge branch 'master' into feature-a (HEAD -> feature-a) [tripott]
  |\
  | * 5f43fbe 2016-10-13 | adding created-in-master-branch markdown file in master branch (master) [tripott]
  * | dfac710 2016-10-13 | adding markdown within feature-a branch [tripott]
  |/
  * 15d5705 2016-10-12 | adding my favorite album [tripott]
  * fe3450b 2016-10-12 | initial commit [tripott]
  ```




[Home](/) | [Branch](/branch/)  |  [Prev](/branch/3)  |  [Next](/branch/5)
